One of the things I have come to believe
is that most successful companies in the
history of the world are built on a
first derivative of the core business.
Let me give you an example.
Union Pacific
railway, massively successful. Made more
money selling land and homes than
building railway than carrying stuff on
the railway. Google, like you search,
you get ads, like first derivative.
First derivatives are
what build enduring companies.
And Silicon Valley also needs to
understand first derivative businesses.
>> [music]
>> Hey everybody. You have Khosla on the
show today. He was the very long-time
CTO at Shopify, recently left, and he's
the new CEO of OpenDoor.
The reason I wanted to talk to him is
he's the most founder mode CEO I've come
across. He's incredibly aggressive, and
he's not transforming the company. It's
a real refounding moment. He's kind of
rethinking everything from scratch. I
think he's going to rewrite the
refounding playbook. And so that part I
found very interesting. He gets into a
lot of personal stuff. And CEOs ask me
about like work-life balance and how do
you manage everything outside of being a
CEO?
>> it's pretty all-consuming. And we talk
about his faith, his marriage, his
ambition, what it was like to be an
immigrant. He talks a lot about how he
kind of lines his whole family around
his job and the mission of his company.
I thought that was fascinating. Um I
appreciate him getting into it because
one-on-one CEOs ask me about that stuff
all the time.
I hope you'll like it. I'll be back at
the end for a little summary. I thought
he was terrific.
Khosla, great to have you.
Thanks for having me, man.
Uh I'm been an admirer of yours for a
long time, and even more so since you
took over OpenDoor.
And in preparation for the pod,
I interviewed or talked to a whole bunch
of people you work for work with before.
Um
a whole bunch of them asked me to ask
you about, you know,
your first principles for business and
life because they said kind of
everything flows out of that. So do If
you don't mind, I'd love to hear about
this. I grew up in um Middle East, and I
moved to Canada when I was 12. Yeah. So
one of the things that happens to you
uh when you do that, when you grow up in
a culture different than yours,
is you get a chance to actually
reconsider
a bunch of your like
roots. Mhm. Like your like
[clears throat] you get to reconsider
the ground upon which you stand. Yeah.
Um
and
because of that, you actually have to be
slightly more deliberate about
what you believe. I know it sounds odd,
but basically every immigrant goes
through a version of this. Mhm.
Especially ones that successfully
assimilate, you get to have like you get
to consider like what is, you know, what
you want your brain to believe
uh relatively early on.
And I I I thought like there's like four
I core believe in, and I talk about
frequently. So I talk about I'll tell
I'll tell you about those four.
The first one is um a very good friend
of mine once gave me advice. He said,
"You want to optimize for stewardship
rather than status in your life and your
career.
I.e., you want to do things rather than
be things."
And this was very important to me early
on in my life cuz people would ask me
what do you want to do?
And I would say title of a job. Yeah.
And people would say
like my good friends would say, "What
does that mean?"
And it just actually tends to be
if you think about that in life, it
actually tends to be
deeply useful to you Mhm. to think of
yourself as like what you are doing, and
what are you doing that in service of.
Mhm. Like people who optimize for
happiness end up not being happy cuz
happiness is a state.
People optimize for service end up
actually being usually deeply happy.
Um so like stewardship over status um
is like the one of the most important
ones for me. Okay. Uh
I love that. Yeah. I know there's a
couple of other ones we can talk about
if you want, but like they're like
actually stewardship over status,
default over everything else. Sorry? I
didn't follow that. Default? Default
over everything else. I.e.,
the power of defaults in life is
underestimated.
Like you cannot accidentally override
defaults
in life
or in software, really. Like what
happens is people basically accept every
default you give them in software, and
usually you accept every default you
have in life.
And if you start rejecting a couple of
defaults, you actually fire the software
or fire your current life.
Um this is like one of those other
things that have been deeply important
to me. Those two things are probably the
most important things. Those two things
kind of rhyme. What
on just on the professional side and the
Just give me an example on both sides.
What are defaults that you have
overridden or ignored
on the professional and recently in the
professional and personal?
I'm curious about that. Well, but that
what I mean is like if you want to
override a default, you have to do it
with like all your power. Yeah. You
can't choose like half-ass it, really.
>> Yeah. I mean look Look, I took a job at
OpenDoor, which was not the default
choice Was not.
>> career.
And you cannot kind of accidentally do
it. You have to do it with full force,
otherwise the wall will stop you.
Let me give you an example. Like I went
to uh business school for undergrad.
I'll give this example. I went to
undergrad for business school. And then
at a business school, I got a job at a
small private equity firm.
Which was a default choice
>> for
going to business school.
I lasted 11 days. Mhm. I left the firm.
Like literally 11 days.
And I just I resigned after 11 days. I'm
like, "This is not what I want to do
with my life." It was deeply
uncomfortable. Mhm. But I kind of knew
the only way I would be able to get off
this road was by fighting the like the
safe choice.
Now, you can't do that with everything
in your life. You generally can't. Just
like you can't fight your MacBook
default all the time. Yes. You can
change one or two things
if you're deliberate about them. And
that has been like a core part of my
life is that when I choose to change a
default, I just like
go at full speed.
And by the way, a a a lesson for people
who build products is like this is why
your responsibility in setting defaults
is so important. Mhm. Because if you set
defaults such that the user has to think
about all the time, they will just fire
your software.
>> Yes. And on the personal side, what's a
default that you've overridden or
ignored?
Um
quite quite a few, honestly. Um
in that area. Like quite a few important
ones, anyway.
Let me give you like a like a real Like
I'm a religious person, where default
for people in my where I grew up and
what I do is not to be religious. Yeah.
Like
I
like
read the Bible every day, go to church
every Sunday.
Um and I've done that deliberately
because I have found that it makes me
better as a human being. Just for me,
the deeply selfish way it makes you good
as a human being.
Um that's not
I'm not that comfortable talking about
this. Generally, I It's actually the
first time I've actually talked about
it.
But it it is a way in which I'm
different Like there are no other tech
CEOs that would be dis- would talk about
this.
And that has mattered uh to me.
Uh my wife and I have always essentially
decided that we would optimize our lives
for a certain set of things that are
different than most people's set of
things.
Uh and those two combined have
essentially allowed me to have the
career I have. Mhm. I generally don't
think I could have had it without those
two defaults changing.
And why do you think
You're right, it's rare that you meet a
tech CEO that reads the Bible every day.
Um
when did you say, "Okay, this is me.
This is going to inform my life. This is
going to inform my work." Did Did at
some point did a
something flip in your head on that?
Yeah. Look, I mean it Look, like
everyone else
who grows up as a nerd, I grew up like
deeply aware of the power of like
my brain over my life.
Like it's just very
People who are not nerds, like I'm I'm
an actual honest-to-goodness nerd. I
like it. Started coding when I was six.
Um don't appreciate that power every
day.
And but for me, it was like really
important like very early on.
And what happens if you're not careful
in this state, um which is what happens
to most founders,
is depression sets in.
This is why many founders end up being
like relatively depressed, even if
they're successful. This is why so many
successful rich people are depressed.
Because they lose control over what they
like what their core beliefs are. Mhm.
And then life becomes a rat race. Like
you're always competing with someone.
And guess what? Elon will always be
richer than you. Yes. And if you're
optimizing your life for like that, you
will always end up being deeply unhappy.
It's the wrong race.
It's like you just It's not a race you
can win. And
um so you But you do need some races in
your life. And what happened to me early
on was I'm like, "Okay, cool. Let me
think about the things that I think will
set me up
so I can have a contentful career. Mhm.
One where I could be proud of my career
and part of my life. Mhm. And early on I
found
at least for me that prayer was even
before I
read the Bible or was a
went to church. I grew up Muslim.
Uh prayer
um was deeply powerful.
This moment of sitting down and saying I
don't have control over everything.
Let me think and reflect on my day and
pray.
Uh I didn't really know how to do it at
first, but the first I did every day for
a little while it just worked. Mhm.
I meditate.
Does that fit in that same thing? Almost
certainly. Almost certainly. Okay.
>> think I think it's most it does
basically the same job
um
with just one tweak.
Like
cuz I I think I think that that is
actually like most successful people
meditate one way or another. Yeah. I
just happen to meditate
with someone else present. Got it.
Um so many of the entrepreneurs I I I
work with are immigrants and so many of
the most successful entrepreneurs
including my co-founder at HubSpot and
CEO of Shopify are immigrants.
I think there's a lot of reasons that is
one of the main reasons though that when
they get to
the US or Canada in his case
just like you have a chance to reset
like hit the reset button and rethink
your defaults from scratch. Do you think
that's part of why that's the case?
I think that's a romantic way of putting
it. Okay. I'm romantic. I think I think
I think it's I think that's the case.
Upside whipping it.
But the real answer for most for Tobi,
for me
for most other immigrants is
there is no safety net. Yeah.
Like I had I didn't have an option.
Like Tobi could not Tobi couldn't get a
job. Yeah. He had to like start Shopify.
Yes. I personally know anyone.
Like I had to like I had to pay for
college.
So I had to start working and like I
just no one would hire me. Yeah.
Um so like hustling for money and like
building websites for people it just
became what I did. Yeah.
And I think you typically like people
who tell me hey I want to grow up to be
an entrepreneur might start start this
whole question is just probably don't.
Yeah, cuz you probably are one already.
You start your paperwork or whatever
when you're set.
>> Like the type of people who decide they
want to be founders because they think
it is cool always fail. Like they just
always will cuz it's just
it's deeply painful and lonely. Um
in ways that are like most successful
entrepreneurs you talk to
if they're being honest, they would say
something along lines of if I knew
everything I know now I would not have
done it. Yeah.
Um
But I my my answer to this is
slightly different in that I don't know
what else I would have done.
Yeah. You didn't have the
the wider range of options and so
it seemed less risky to be an
entrepreneur. Yeah. Yeah. Risk adjusted
upside and we when you did the expected
value on all the equations, that had the
highest expected value for you. Yeah.
And I think this is actually a very real
thing in life is that like human beings
structurally misprice risk. Yeah.
It's actually the one thing that is in
favor of entrepreneurs. The one thing
that is structurally in favor of
entrepreneurs is everyone else misprices
risk. Yeah.
I think it's partially because of the
way we evolved. It was just like we were
just always one lion bite away from
dying. Yeah. So we're like ah
Like but turns out like things going
poorly is not as painful as you think it
is. You will recover.
It's just far more things will go wrong
than you expect them to go wrong. Yes.
Like each pain is not as bad as you
think it is, but everything is more
painful than you think it is. Yes. So I
spend a lot of time with CEOs. Like
that's my life these days.
And
I look back that the the founder mode
memo or Paul Graham memo was it was a
little over a year ago. Mhm. And
I think it's had deep impact. Like it's
the default now.
And I don't think CEOs
apologize for that behavior anymore.
Aren't trying to aren't being talked
into manager mode.
And you are now my in my head the poster
child for
founder mode. How does that land with
you?
I mean I'm comfortably uh this is this
is a part of my job I'm genuinely not
good at. Like this like talking to
people about the job. Yeah.
Uh I'm much more comfortable
like in Figma working through product
problems.
Um but
so I'm uncomfortable being the poster
child for anything genuinely.
But
but you think about this
uh I'm 42 now so like you I think about
my responsibilities uh to the world. 43.
Uh and one of my responsibilities I feel
like so I had this very weird out of
body uh moment where I can remember
this. I had a conversation
um basically where I was like
working at a big company.
And
I came out of a meeting and my boss at
the time told me hey
this is why you will never be
uh an executive at this company.
And I said why? And my boss said well
because you don't have an executive
voice.
And I said what the is that?
>> [laughter]
>> And my boss said exactly.
Um
and I felt deeply
um painful just was very deeply painful.
Because it felt to me at the time at
least everyone else was being told bring
your whole self to work. Yeah.
Bring your whole self to work. That was
like what everyone else was being told.
But if you were slightly disagreeable
Yeah.
or if you cared about the details a
little too much
um or if you thought
you know that like
9:00 to 5:00 wasn't odd working hour.
Like if you thought any of these things
you weren't allowed to bring your whole
self to work. You like you were excluded
from this
thing.
So I think what founder mode over
anything else means genuinely
is about
the amount of responsibility
the CEO takes for outcomes.
Like I'm not responsible I hold myself
responsible for outcomes
not processes.
Like
I have a wonderful uh person who works
for me and I'm like your job is process
design, my job is outcome delivery.
Okay. Look, do we have different jobs
here? Mhm. And her job and her job every
once in a while I think Kaz I need you
to come down for a second. And I
four to five times I will. Um
but the main difference between
professional managers and um founders is
professional managers care more
about process than truth.
They care more about what things look
like than what they are.
Because their source of power comes from
management. Yeah.
And that's not where my source of power
comes from. I don't have
no one thinks I'm a good manager.
Like genuinely no one thinks that. Like
I've had
and I have managed thousands of people
uh in my job like thousands.
And I don't think any of them would say
Kaz is a great manager.
None of the people I called said you
were a great manager in getting ready
for this. Like I I think some of them
would say I would work for Kaz again. I
think many of them would say that. I
think would say Kaz is a good leader.
But as a good I'm not a I'm not the
world's greatest manager. I am
you know, but the upside that you get
with having me as your
manager. That process person has that
process person been with you for 10
years or did you just discover that
process person when you joined OpenDoor?
No, it's been uh she's been with me.
She's I mean she's young. She's now the
chief operating officer of OpenDoor.
Okay. So she came from Shopify. She was
she was at Shopify with me. Yes. And I
like
and at uh when I was at Facebook I had
different process person. Um
this in fact in my first meeting at
Facebook I got hired as a product
manager.
I was sitting in this meeting and there
was a person sitting next to me.
And I was sitting in the meeting and
this person literally started kicking me
under the table.
Like never
met this person before.
But like I like so and that person also
came to Shopify eventually with us. But
like so we had like a
So I need like everyone has
flaws that we need to be aware of. And
one of my jobs is to not make myself
well-rounded. Okay, let me ask you about
that. A lot of people say you should
work on your strengths and a lot of
other people myself say hire around your
weaknesses, work on your strengths. Are
you Do you ever work on your weaknesses?
Like you got lots of feedback over the
years. You didn't I don't. lean into
your strengths. I don't I don't. Um in
fact I think this is like one of the
things that you get wrong early on your
career. Me, too. You have a meeting with
your manager and your manager will give
you some feedback about what you've done
over the last 6 months. Mhm. And then
you by naturally say oh I'm bad at this.
I need to get better.
What you actually have to ask yourself
is is the fact that I'm bad at this the
reason I'm good at everything else?
Yeah.
Right? So I have always basically
throughout my career had someone whose
job it was to round me out. Yeah. Um
Keep trains on time. Yeah.
Um when you
when you joined OpenDoor you published a
blueprint that I read
which is kind of a user manual for
working for for Cass.
And it read to me that's part of where
the founder might read to me as a
founder mode kind of manifesto, but
you know, Cassish. Yeah. Um most CEOs
are quirky and
most founders are quirky. I was
certainly quirky, still am.
And should all CEOs write a user manual
to themselves? Yes. 100%. Look, that's
that that blueprint is about a decade
old. Oh, okay. You've had that for a
while. I've changed words in it like
maybe like a dozen words, but it's about
a decade old. Like I've had I've had it
for a while and I've given it to
I published it Shopify. I I've given it
to other people.
>> Got it. Got it.
>> Um
And like the reason is that look,
if you're a founder type,
you owe it to everyone around you to
tell them who you are.
Strong attract, strong repel.
Like
but if you go to
uh a restaurant if you go if you go to
an Italian restaurant and you complain
the sushi is bad,
that's your fault.
You went to the wrong restaurant.
But if you went to a restaurant that
says restaurant and it said food is bad,
that's the restaurant's fault.
My job is to tell you what kind of a
person I am
so you can opt in or opt out. Yep.
>> I intend to change the company.
I will work on myself all the time. We
all should. We all have flaws.
But I don't intend to to fundamentally
change who I am as a person. Mhm.
Number one on that list caught my
attention.
It was I got your back and I trust you,
which gives me warm fuzzies inside.
Um
but
at some point you work with people and
they let you down or they didn't meet
your bar or they didn't scale.
And like a lot of CEOs talk about you
know, hire slow and fire fast.
>> Yeah.
If I read between the lines, it look it
sounds like you hire slow and fire slow.
Is that fair? Do you have a contrarian
view on that?
>> Uh
no.
I think that says something along the
lines of I think the sentence goes
if we work together, I have higher trust
than most because we're on the same
team.
Mhm. It doesn't say that you will be on
the same team we'll be on the same team
forever.
Mhm. Like I I start
I I find
that
it is easier um
and Toby had this concept which I
thought was wonderful called trust
battery. Yes. I I totally stole that
from him. It's just deeply useful. He's
like
and his point was hey,
I usually start a 50% trust battery with
you. As you build trust, I increase it
and then as you go deep
I thought about this a lot. I'm like no,
I don't. I usually play so with 75%
trust in you.
>> I see.
But I deplete it much faster than I see.
Okay.
Because I want to start by being able to
allocate risk to you more than you
you're comfortable being allocated risk
to early on.
So I think when I say I got your back, I
mean go take the risks. Yep.
I'm underwriting you to take the risk.
But um because otherwise I think what
happens is you learn too slowly about
what people are.
Like if you were dropped in into a
a hockey team you were growing up,
um like hey,
you're the new put her left winger on
this team.
It's a really bad idea for you to assume
uh the center man is a bad hockey
player.
It's just bad cuz you will
overcompensate it for the person that
you without knowing. Yep.
>> better off assuming they are very good
at their job. Mhm.
And then doing your job well.
That's what I mean. I mean when I start,
I assume you're here, therefore you're
good at your job. Mhm. But I I have a
much um
different
battery depletion mode than most people.
Look, look, is if you look at Open Doors
um executive team since I started
from two quarters so two quarters ago
before I joined,
there's one member of the executive team
left
at the company.
That's just strong repel, strong attract
play of the job. Um Turns out there was
a lot of strong repel.
>> [laughter]
>> What? Yeah.
Uh you brought up Toby. He's he's on my
Mount Rushmore of founders. I think he's
very special.
What can CEOs other than the trust
battery thing, which I I think is great,
um what can CEOs learn from Toby?
Um there's a concept in finance called
uh discount rate. Mhm. What is a
discount rate on anything?
And most
corporate types
apply a very high discount rate to
outcomes.
I.e. if something's going to happen in 5
years, they value it like 20% of value.
Um Toby applies a discount rate of zero
basically
to the future. But like Toby like is
built for the long term in ways that are
very difficult to do in a modern public
company. Mhm. Like he's determined to
care about what happens 10 years from
now as much as what he cares about what
happens now. Okay, very long horizons.
Very long very long horizons. And it's
deeply useful to think about it.
Because I think what actually matters
generally I think there are two useful
time frames to think about if you're
managing company. Mhm. This week
and 10 years from now. Okay.
Like this quarter is actually deeply
useless
measuring thing.
>> Okay. So everyone's got it wrong on the
quarters. All right. Tell me why.
I think weeks are very important. Like a
week is an incredibly important period
of time because you can get a lot done a
week. You can validate most ideas in a
week. You can ship most things in a
week.
But 12 weeks in my experience is not
that useful in really anything. I see.
>> Like it's just not a measurable it's not
like not cohorts don't bake enough in 12
weeks. Like they just like you know what
the outcome of most things
either in a week or in a very long time.
>> Right. Okay. I like this.
Um
what else can people learn from Toby?
Uh building companies outside Silicon
Valley
is a deeply useful thing.
Like you guys built HubSpot outside
Silicon Valley. Um I think part of the
reason HubSpot was successful is because
it wasn't in Silicon Valley. I'll give
you a thesis on that.
Uh cuz Shopify and HubSpot started
around the started around the same time.
We both started in SMB.
And I don't think either company had a
choice because Silicon Valley is so
allergic to SMB.
Um that
if we were in in in the valley, we
probably would have either been talked
out of it or wouldn't have been able to
raise money. So I don't think it's a
coincidence
that
you know, two pretty big SMB companies
get founded in Canada and Boston.
Yeah, I think I think this I mean by the
way, I think the same is true for
real estate software. Okay.
>> relatively allergic to it. Yeah.
I I think this is partially because
um despite the fact that most Silicon
Valley type under understand the idea of
cohorts and how they bake, Yeah. they're
they they understand it theoretically,
but not deeply. Mhm.
Like the cohorts
of HubSpot and Shopify and by the way,
Open Door just bake
differently.
And
like most even like this is why Silicon
Valley by the way loves enterprise sales
companies. Yep. This is deeply loves
enterprise sales because they're like
I understand that model perfectly. I
understand the like the
ideal customer like ICP of the ideal
customer profile like
Silicon Valley loves enterprise software
and consumer.
Yep. Like there are two things like uh
we don't know how to understand how to
underwrite these things.
But
um churn like churn is something Silicon
Valley doesn't genuinely understand.
And the other thing Silicon Valley
doesn't really understand, which is odd
generally odd,
so I'm going to tell you um I'm um
give me some rope here for a second.
Toby once asked me to take over Shopify
shipping. He's like hey, you're going to
run Shopify shipping.
I'm like great.
The first thing I did was I went and
read the US US Postal Service Act, which
was written in the 1700s. I'm like I'm
going to go like read this thing that is
the basis of this whole system. Okay. I
need to understand like how the system
works. Yep. I'm deeply curious about the
history of things. Deeply curious.
And one of the things I have come to
believe
is that most successful companies in the
history of the world
are built on a first derivative of the
core business.
Let me give you an example.
Union Pacific
railway, massively successful. Made more
money selling land and homes than
building railway than carrying stuff on
the railway. Yeah, and Shopify turns you
know, this started as a SAS company as
payments company.
Yeah, like they I mean I think it's a
kind of generally a merchant services
company. Yes. But yeah, like payments,
tax, billing, like
ads, bunch of other stuff.
But this is actually the core
most of the most successful companies in
the history of the world. Google. Like
you search, you get ads. Like first
derivative. Yep.
First derivatives are
what build enduring companies.
And Silicon Valley also misunderstands
first derivative businesses. Mhm. Cuz
the CAC and LTV is slightly harder to
calculate. Yep.
Just inside so I want to get to the
shipping thing. At one point Shopify
made a huge bet like we're going to buy
warehouses, we're going to have
inventory, like we're going to do the
whole e-commerce stack.
And you ran that play for a while, and I
was watching from afar like, "Oh, that
was impressive move." And then at some
point you said, "Actually, we don't want
to do that." And you divested in that
business. You just take me behind the
scenes to the discussions and when you
made that bet.
And then even more importantly, behind
the scenes of what happened and how all
the discussions taken, what were the
protagonists saying when you decided,
"Hey, we were wrong. Let's get out of
this business." That was a very
interesting
chapter for you guys. And I had admired
I admired it. So, getting out of this
decision to get out of it took about
3 weeks, I think, 4 weeks. Where did the
Where did it start?
Did somebody send an email to Toby like,
"We were all wrong about this."
So, look, I took over as a chief
operating officer of a company
uh
in I think September of '22. And we sold
the company we sold publicly sold
logistics in May of the following year.
It's like all understood these things
take 3 months to negotiate. So, like you
can back figure out when the decision
got made.
So, you thought it you thought it was a
bad call in the first place. You took
over the new job like, "Okay, I think we
should unwind this." I think it's odd to
hold your past self guilty. I think you
should try very hard not to hold your
past self guilty cuz you made the best
decision you could have made at the
time. Yeah. You also owe it to yourself
to make a brand new decision every day
on facts that you learn. And Shopify
needed to focus way more at its core
business and less on side quests.
And Toby just genuinely was like, "Yes,
we should go on like main mission." And
what core was it? Did you feel like your
main business was getting wobbly? The
cohorts were worse getting a new
competitor? Like
where was the inkling? And And what was
What was the meeting like when you were
arguing about this? Or you didn't even
argue about it? No, it wasn't There was
no table pound table fisting thing.
Yeah. Shopify was a place where we we
had honest conversations frequently.
Uh no, I think what happened was look,
facts on the ground changed, right? When
Shopify got into logistics
there were no good ways for a small
business to do logistics.
There just wasn't any. Like it was
Amazon or bust. Yeah. Um
in the 4 years since Shopify started, a
bunch of very good companies got started
and were very good. Walmart got into
space. DHL got into space.
>> Interesting. Okay. All the few people
So, like the the alternative to us doing
it changed. Yeah.
Like we were not jealous of anyone
else's margin. We didn't get into this
business because of like, "Yes, margin."
That's not how great businesses are
built.
So, the people we needed to serve didn't
need us anymore. So, we're like, "Okay,
great. We don't have to go buy a
concrete. Great. Concrete is annoying.
Mhm.
Let's go back and deal with um electrons
cuz electrons behave differently.
>> a fight internally, I guess, is my
question. The person who owned that
initiative pushed back hard. No? No, it
was it was very it was incredibly
um you'd be surprised how easy it was to
get everyone aligned and execute against
it.
>> Interesting. It sounded from the outside
as a whopper. Like I was so impressed
that you're like, "We made this big bet.
You know what? We were wrong. Let's not
continue to throw
bad money after bad money."
Shopify is an incredibly good company at
successfully discovering things that
don't work Mhm. and being honest with
itself. And is that Toby? Toby strikes
me as like
Toby's one of the few very few people on
the planet that makes me a little bit
nervous.
Um very few people like that. And then
he's just he's kind of stern and he's
kind of tough and he's very, you know,
does that come from him?
He's not that stern generally. I think
he's a kind wonderfully human being. But
Shopify is deeply committed to truth
above all else. And but that comes from
him, I assume. Yeah, of course, of
course. It's I mean
companies are exoskeletons of their
leaders if they're good. I like that. I
like a very real thing. Like like every
company must be an exoskeleton of its
leader if that leader is good. Yeah.
Um so Shopify is an exoskeleton of Toby.
Yeah. Okay. You work for Zuckerberg and
Toby.
How did they rhyme and how did they not
rhyme?
Now, I worked with Toby much more
closely than I did with Mark, but I you
know, I knew Mark and and I know Mark.
Um
uh
they're both
deeply product focused, deeply product
focused in like
ways that are genuinely impressive. Mhm.
Um
they're both very, very um long-term
focused in ways
that are just genuinely impressive.
They've both built companies the hard
way. Like generally, like if I like if
you look at Mark lost his entire
executive team
after it turned down the eye walk
acquisition. Like all his friends put on
him. Yeah.
Like how many people survive that? Yeah.
Like no one survives that. Like no one.
Um
So, they both built companies the hard
way and they're very they're very
similar in that way generally. Now, I
think Mark is more of a product manager
at heart and Toby's more of an engineer
at heart. Mhm. So, that that manifests
itself differently
in how conversations go.
Like you end up having lots of
conversations with Toby about uh the
shipping API. Mhm.
Um but they're very similar people.
Okay.
How did it all go down with the OpenDoor
is kind of cruising along?
Uh very low market cap. And take like
what the hell happened? Keith and the
founder and you got together and took
over this public company. Like take this
behind the scenes. What the hell
happened there?
I'm generally comfortable saying this. I
don't know how this could have happened
without some someone else's plan.
Like I was flying back home from Dallas,
Texas in February
where I was hosting like this event at
Shopify called the top 100. Like typical
corporate event.
And I for fun take about companies that
I do. Like it's one of the things I do
for fun is like learn about history of
companies.
And on that flight for no reason at all,
genuinely no reason at all, I picked
OpenDoor. Like let me learn about
OpenDoor. Okay.
And then
I became and then I spent every weekend
for like
four weekends in a row
like taking apart modeling OpenDoor,
taking apart things, screwing it, taking
through the product, using the product.
And got to a point where my wife and I
at dinner were basically only talking
about OpenDoor for a few weeks.
You sound like a barrel of laughs, by
the way. I'm Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] Like
my wife.
And then I I texted uh Keith in March.
And you knew him?
This I knew Yeah, I knew Keith through a
boy I knew Keith through close ventures.
I messaged him saying, "Hey, I've talked
to my wife.
Um we're going to go all in and we're
going to spend our entire net worth
to take OpenDoor private.
Like my wife and I are going to do it.
Like
like sell everything, spend every last
thing I have, leverage ourselves as much
as we can, and take OpenDoor private.
And what was the company worth at the
time? Uh
few a few hundred million. Okay. But I
said Keith, "Are you going to do it with
me?" Like I was like point on.
Um
And he said, "Yeah, let's talk about
it." And then
we had one conversation
and then the company did did
this insane genuinely insane financing
that basically made it impossible to
acquire the company and take it private.
It was just like
And my plan wasn't to run the company.
My plan was just like stay at Shopify,
join the board of the company
and just like yell at them over like
product choices they were making. Yeah.
Uh cuz I I generally never thought I
would leave Shopify. I just
really liked the company.
Um so I didn't I'm up by April and May I
said I should kind of given up on it.
Uh and then I got a call one Sunday
uh from Paul De Verza who was a
recruiter.
And Paul had been trying to get me to
get me to go
be a CEO bunch of other companies and I
had always said, "Hey, I'm not
interested. I love my job."
He called me on Sunday
and I picked up the phone like, "Paul, I
appreciate you. I love my wife.
I haven't seen her for a while. I'm not
interested. Whatever it is, I'm not
interested."
He said, "Kaz, it's a public company CEO
job."
And I said, "Paul, I'm not interested."
And then I had to take away. I said,
"Unless it's OpenDoor." Okay.
And then he said "It is. How fast can
you get to New York?"
I was in New York in about 5 hours after
that.
And from that conversation to me being
announced as the CEO of OpenDoor was
maybe 15, 16 days.
And behind the scenes, Keith and Eric
who's the original founder and Keith the
original investor
were they just baking on it? And did
they reach out to Paul and say, "We want
to hire Kaz as our CEO." Like how did
What What the hell happened? Yeah, I I
think Keith and Eric has actually
decided that they were going to like
rescue the company. Yeah.
And
they need they need a CEO.
And I actually don't know how the
conversations went. Mhm. Um because I
think they were trying to do it for a
while, but I actually actually ask Keith
how the conversation went.
Uh but yeah, I
my input to it was a phone call on a
Sunday from Paul saying, "Hey,
like are you interested in this?"
And it generally happened very fast.
Like 2 and 1/2 weeks, I think, was the
entire time.
>> mechanically, you three said, "All
right, we're going to throw it to CEO."
Did you buy all the shares up? Like how
the How do you take over a public
company like that? It doesn't I haven't
seen this.
I don't know. This is not a common
occurrence.
What happened was like I met with the
existing board. Yeah. This board had a
CEO search. Yeah.
Um they said hey under what conditions
would you
join
>> take this job?
They were incredibly kind and generous.
Like the existing board was desperately
trying to fix the company. Yeah. Like
they realized that like they had been
changed and
the previous CEO had left. And so I told
them hey like
I want the following board members on
the board.
And I want you to promise me that you
will not care about what it looks like
for a while.
Because
like I'm not
a caretaker type. I intend to build
product
for for a living.
So it was actually very
surprisingly easy conversation.
It was it was whirlwind and I remember
it was like the night before
the announcement I was with my family in
New York.
And it was 3:30 a.m.
And my wife was sleeping in the hotel
room so I couldn't be in the hotel room.
But I was on a call pacing up and down
uh Central Park West because I didn't
want anyone to overhear me talking cuz I
was talking about a public company.
Like
figure out how to do this. I said it was
it was intense. Just genuinely intense.
But not hard. Like it was like everyone
was trying to solve a problem.
And so you three didn't buy the company.
You all joined the board. You obviously
got a bunch of shares.
And I guess the other two did as well.
Well they invested they invested in so
yeah
if they did a pipe and they invested in
the company. I see.
And what happened to the board?
Uh the few of them remained few of them
left. It was like they refreshed the
board. Uh the board is excellent. Just
excellent board.
I'm very happy with them.
Um I would put up our board against any
board.
You you talk about it as a refounding.
Mhm. The more should more public
companies do this?
Yes.
I think it is like you are uh look
I think professional managers are good
at managing a decline.
Like a slow decline. You don't have to
it doesn't have to be a big decline.
Yeah. But the
exothermic power that leads to
extraordinary outcomes is not found in
professional managers. It just isn't.
So you what you end up having is these
periods of like up and then s- very slow
decline.
And eventually General Electric happens,
right?
This like wonderful like American
company and it didn't have a refounding
moment and it is now but it is.
Um whereas Microsoft has had a
refounding for example. Like a very
obvious one. Yes.
I don't think they used that word but
that's very clearly what happened. Yeah.
Um So the question is not whether the
founder is there or not. The question is
whether the founder seat is taken or
not.
Like is someone occupying the founder
seat yes or no?
Um and otherwise because what happens
Now look I don't think every company can
do this. I don't I think some companies
are structurally not set up for this.
Most conglomerate are not. Like if
you're a conglomerate it's very hard to
do this.
But if you're a
product company you require like
exothermic pressure
uh on the system.
Uh and you know it has upsides and
downsides.
It could go well or it can go poorly.
Um but it is certainly not managing a
decline.
One of the things that surprised me
was
you joined
you hadn't really even said anything and
the market cap went up by I don't know
six seven X.
I know you're incredibly bullish about
it and you're very long-term thinker
about anything it's amazing. Were you
even surprised about how much the stock
price went up when you joined? This will
be odd but I I genuinely honestly don't
think about the stock price. I really
don't. It's very I know it's it sounds
odd to say.
I don't think about it is not
I think what I do is correlated over a
long term with a stock price and not in
the short one. Mhm. Like I I have talked
to company about the stock price twice
since I joined. And both times it has
been to say something along the lines
like this.
The stock price going up 15% doesn't
mean we're 15% smarter.
It just doesn't.
Like
um what it mean our job is to create
value and solve problems for our users.
If we do that well over a long enough
period time
the company becomes valuable. Mhm.
I don't genuinely understand CEOs that
have the stock price on a Bloomberg
terminal in their office.
I I gently I believe I owe a duty to our
shareholders to deliver value to them.
Or they put CNBC or Bloomberg on because
it just creates
a knot in your stomach and such
short-term behavior. Here's Here's the
thing watching ESPN does not make you a
good professional quarterback. No it
doesn't.
Watching CNBC does not make you a good
professional CEO. It just doesn't. Like
I think it makes you worse.
Because you start to think very
short-term about things. Yeah.
You look I I owe I view it as my duty to
deliver value for our shareholders. I'm
not denying that. It's their money. Like
they own shares in the company they're a
company.
But
I think our shareholders should expect
me to deliver value over a long period
of time and should be mostly agnostic to
day-to-day.
Yeah. Okay. In Silicon Valley in tech
turnarounds are extremely rare.
Mhm. Like very rare. If something starts
going down
it's it it doesn't happen a lot that it
turns around.
Um
why is it different?
I mean there are examples of this. There
are examples of successful turnarounds.
There aren't that many. I agree with
you. But because most of the teams that
have tried to a turnaround haven't done
it like this.
The most successful turn around
obviously is Apple.
Like very clearly like
and by the way Apple was in much more
trouble
than OpenDoor is today. Like objectively
more trouble. Like worse
worse position. Yeah. Um
Like I I don't think there's that many
lessons to be learned about why
professional CEOs fail.
I think the um
management types can't really
like I said slow decline or slow climb
not significant change in direction.
That's just not
>> think the problem people have so so many
venture capitalists are holding
companies that are going sideways.
And you think the playbook is okay bring
someone in but it's refounding and
really shake it hard. Do do it like like
like Steve Jobs. Don't make incremental
change. Don't change pricing and
packaging. Don't spin out one thing.
Look I think um
the the going state of companies Mhm.
Like the the the existing inertia is
real. Yeah. And usually when things are
going sideways it's not because one
thing is going poorly.
It's because you're in a death spiral.
Yeah.
Right?
And what you need to change when you're
in a death spiral is everything. Yeah.
Got it.
Everything must change because
the alternative is
bad.
And like what happens unfortunately
sometimes
is manage managers are incentivized to
delay death.
But I think this is actually why RSUs
are incredibly harmful to CEOs.
I think professional managers when they
get RSUs they're incentivized to delay
the inevitable sometimes.
>> [clears throat]
>> more. I liked the world when it was
ISOs.
Yeah like it's it's like I think it's a
very bad change in structure. Like
management teams should be incentivized
on outcomes. Like performance-based over
everything. Mhm.
Because I have zero incentive to manage
a decline. I don't I just don't have
one. Like How are you How are you How
did you all decide to pay you?
Um
>> Is it Is it Elon style package? Like
what?
Not that Not that size but like the
structure.
I mean what I wanted was
um
I asked for a salary of a dollar and
options. I'm like I would like options.
Okay. But the combination of Delaware
and SEC have made granting options in
this particular way very difficult to
in public companies.
So we essentially like constructed a
package that looks a lot like just
options. You use PSUs. We use PSUs with
like PSUs have zero value below a
certain price some value above certain
price. So I kind of like how it looks
like. Some of them have like strike
prices that are high some of them like
just just they're very
similar in their structure.
I think this is actually like the right
alignment between me and the
shareholders. Mhm.
Are you two Um
Because otherwise like
it's very Look Wall Street is full
genuinely full
of
um
like Harvard MBA types who have driven
the companies to zero while getting
rich.
Like I just
And it's actually very terrible man.
It's terrible because you want companies
to matter. It's not all companies. Let's
not exaggerate. No no no.
You want Hey you want companies to
matter. You want companies to matter.
Like any company needs to matter.
Now I don't think all Harvard MBAs are
terrible. Clearly not. Very clearly not.
But I do think
there are too many examples of people
who got rich destroying companies. I
agree. Uh and I think the compensation
plan is at our our all wrong. You're
coming into a company that was probably
not AI native, was probably not product
oriented,
and you said something interesting, you
want to be the most aggressive software
company ever. I'm curious about that.
I'm also curious about how do you take
what was likely a very non-AI company
and make it AI native?
Um kind of like this is kind of like the
result of what happened.
We had a
uh company-wide hackathon
10 days ago, I think. And uh we have uh
people we call HPMs. These are people
who essentially renovate homes. They're
people who manage your English funds.
Yep.
One of them wrote a piece of software.
There's a guy who was like essentially
GC.
Wrote a piece of software that automated
away his entire job.
And he's now manager of a bunch of
pieces of software to do that. Okay.
This guy had never written a piece of
code in his life before. Like was not
opened up cursor, opened up Gumloop,
and like we helped like we had we had
coaching, we had like
the folks from Cursor and Gumloop and
OpenAI were in our offices teaching
people how to do things. And so end
result is that I think everyone at
OpenDoor uses AI every day now. Mhm. And
you think that the the hackathon sparked
that?
I think hackathon was us testing whether
we had built the muscle. Yeah.
>> 10 weeks.
What changed was like look, um
I had a very honest conversation with
the company, which is that hey, like the
first line in your job description is
you default to AI.
And what do I mean by you default to AI?
Because there's a very real thing that
happens. Every company has a performance
management system. All of us do. Yeah.
Most companies lie about the purpose of
performance management system.
Like we're a professional sports team.
The job of a professional that is
performance management system is to tell
you whether you get to play on the team
or not. That's the job. That's why the
company built it.
So, I will evaluate people at OpenDoor
about on whether they default to AI or
not as the first question in the
performance management system. Got it.
Okay.
That's a good way to do it.
Um
so, I'm out I'm listening to this pod.
I'm a VP of XYZ at
a public company.
I want to do what you did Mhm.
eventually.
What advice do you have for
people working in the middle of
HubSpot, in the middle of Facebook, in
the middle of whatever
Google, if they want to be you someday?
I didn't plan to do this. This was
there's no 10-year secret plan for
Cassia public company CEO. That just
doesn't exist anywhere. Yep.
Um what I did was I decided I would have
a career rather than a job.
Like I didn't really ever care about how
much I got paid. I generally didn't
really, honestly. What's the difference
you wanted a career not a job? Just
unpack that. So, a job is something you
do for someone else in order to get
paid. Yep.
Career? A career is something you work
on every day for yourself.
There's there's a very real difference.
There's a very real difference in how
you react to the thing. And and most
people have jobs, and that's totally
okay. It's totally okay for most people.
Most people like are like, "Hey,
I opt my my life for something else
other than what I do at work." That's
totally okay.
But,
I don't. I optimize my life for my
career.
And my wife optimizes her life for my
And my kids optimize their childhood for
this thing we are doing together as a
family.
Like my kids know what OpenDoor is.
Like I have a conversation about
building products with my 6-year-old,
and we have like this is what we do.
This is our conver- this is like our
dinner conversations. Mhm.
Like our job as a family, we're all in
as a family.
Like we're not like this is not a
this is our main mission.
That's that's the outcome of years of
essentially saying, "I will give a lot
of about the thing I'm doing at
work."
Every single day I will care a lot, and
I will self-identify with my work.
Not with my ideas, with my work. This
And this, by the way, is is very odd cuz
like I've um
the advice you get when you're young is
almost certainly terrible. Um
my advice to you if you're young is work
all the hours.
Like if your manager is letting you work
work,
just work all the hours because
otherwise you will not become good at
the thing that is your craft, your
discipline. Like if you were a
woodworker
200 years ago, you'd be in the shop
learning what it feels like to like cut
a piece of wood. The feeling would
matter.
And you need to discover when you are
young what your breaking points are. And
the only way you can do that is working
hard. Tom Brady threw a lot of passes
before he got good.
And do you think people, young people,
should follow their passion?
Or is that kind of
I heard Scott Galloway recently
talking uh to a bunch of students, he
was like,
"A lot of rich people look back and they
say follow your passion, but they really
didn't.
>> [laughter]
>> They were just practical, and they dug
in on something that was nasty."
Uh I think this way you should look for.
You should think how can I be of service
to the world? Mhm.
How can I be of service? Mhm.
And if you think of it like that, I
think things usually end up working out
okay. Mhm. If you think what can I get,
things usually end up working poorly.
Mhm. Like
and this is like true in relationships,
by the way, as much as it is in your
career. Like you want to be you yourself
as a net addition to other things around
you. Mhm.
Okay, I you've talked about your family
a bunch, your wife a bunch. I've seen
you tweeting about it.
I'm 58 and I've never been married.
Why am I doing it all wrong?
Man, I don't know if you're doing it all
wrong, but if the average person was
doing what you're doing, they would be
doing it wrong. I think the averages are
like important, but there are people on
the extreme ends to whom rules don't
apply.
I wrote a book about this. It's called
Get Married.
Why people get married early,
and why should they design their
marriage like yours? You've got an
unusual setup here.
I don't think everyone should design
their marriage like me, but I think most
the book I wrote is essentially is the
health, wealth, and happiness impacts of
marriage on men.
That's what the book is about. It's
I wrote a book on men, so I wrote about
men.
The data is undeniable. Yeah.
There are types of cancer
where being married is as good an
indicator of survival rate than
chemotherapy.
Like that's that's a very real thing.
Now, I'm not saying all cancers,
obviously I'm not stupid.
Um but if you live in the United States
or Canada,
if you do the following three things in
the following order,
your odds of being unhappy
or poor
are almost zero.
That is graduate high school,
get some work experience, get married
before you're 30.
Okay.
>> those three things in that order,
the odds are
like you'll have a real happy,
fulfilling life. Now, that's not for
everyone. Like you should know yourself
and be good. But, you should also be
honest enough with yourself to recognize
that the odds are you are not special.
The odds are the thing that has worked
in history for humanity will work for
you.
Now, some people are different. Like I'm
different in some ways than everyone
else. Brian, you're different in some
ways, possibly in this way than everyone
else. We undervalue
as a society the importance of marriage,
and more importantly the importance of
kids.
Like I am a better CEO because I have
kids. Tell me why.
Um it is a lonely job.
It is deeply lonely.
And
my kids know the mission of OpenDoor and
why I do what I do, and they ask me
about it, and they're proud of me for
doing it. Mhm. And we have conversations
that have nothing to do with work or
something to do with work,
but it makes the
hard less hard. I'll tell you um a
story.
There was a day at Shopify where we did
a riff, and I insisted that I would exit
the most people. I I would have more
conversations than anyone.
I had rented a uh an office in Palo Alto
cuz I was in Palo Alto, and I got to the
office in that office at 3:45 a.m., I
think,
Palo Alto time. And I started having
one-on-one conversations,
and I had I finished around 7:00 p.m.,
Palo Alto time. I unlocked the office,
Mhm.
and I hung up my last uh hangout,
I burst out crying. Yeah. Just like
burst out could not stop myself.
And I walked we were in an Airbnb, I
walked to the Airbnb where my son ran
and gave me a hug.
You mean
And it was like
like daddy mode kicked in,
and I was just
it changed the day. That day will still
go down in history as the worst day of
my career. Yeah. Um
I felt
I felt a deep pain.
And by the way, I will I genuinely don't
think I will ever recover from it.
Um
but
like I could do it because of my son.
Mhm.
And because of my family. that was
deep-seated, so
Alex, you've had good karma.
Yeah. Talk talk about karma and I'm I'm
going to give you like
I was just listening to Ben Horowitz
talk about how
he's kind of the opposite on karma. He's
like, "Life is deeply unfair. Get over
it."
And like, he didn't say he doesn't
believe in karma, but I feel like I I
was listening to him the other day and I
read about your karma thing.
Talk about karma.
Alex, life is not unfair. It just isn't.
Okay. You are destined for something.
Your job in life is to discover that
destiny and discover your mission. Mhm.
And you need to work on that and work on
yourself till you discover it. Mhm. Um
And I think that could be different for
anyone.
Um and the more good you do, the more
good you get back. Mhm. Now, it may be
difficult. I'm not saying it's easy. It
may be difficult. It is not unfair.
Mhm. Um look, I'm
I'm more comfortable with this because I
think we talked about it in front of it.
Yep. Yep.
But there's a deep purpose that I have.
And my purpose is to make it such that
the average family can afford a good
home
Mhm. and raise a good family.
And that's where we can reduce the
friction
and the cost of home ownership.
That's deeply fulfilling. It is
difficult but fulfilling.
>> And I find that difficult and fulfilling
are highly correlated.
Yes, I hear you, too.
Okay. I wish you great karma in your new
venture. Appreciate you coming on the
pod. You are very very unusual,
interesting, fascinating person. Thank
you for coming on.
Thanks, Scott. I appreciate it, man.
Okay, I hope you liked that episode with
Kaz. I think he's awesome. He's one of
the most intentional people I've ever
met. Never mind intentional CEOs,
intentional people. His leadership
style, the way his family works, how he
defines success,
pretty much everything. He overrides
every default and he does it over and
over again.
Now,
I actually think this is a very good
podcast for existing CEOs. If I were an
existing CEO of a company, it's
interesting time to be a CEO. I think I
would approach it and pretend like if
today were my first day as an outside
CEO joining my company, I were
unencumbered by all the good, bad, and
indifferent decisions I made, all of the
baggage, all of the stuff that's
happened. What would I do if today were
my first day as that outside CEO?
That's the way I think people should be
thinking today, particularly with all
this going on in the world. And you
don't do that,
you run the risk that the board's going
to do that for you. [music] And so, I
like his playbook around that. He's an
interesting guy. It was one of those
conversations that really kind of made
me re-examine how I'm showing up, not
just at work, but everywhere.
And re-examining my own defaults, and I
wonder if you had the same reaction.
Like, what are the defaults that you're
rethinking based on this?
Anyway, I hope you liked it. If [music]
you want to chat about it, I'm at
@bhalligan on X. Let's keep the
conversation rolling.
>> [music]